1.INTRODUCTION 

1.1 Background
The average American moves about eleven times in their lifetime. This brings us to the
question: Do people move until they find a place to settle down where they truly feel happy,
or do our wants and needs change over time, prompting us to eventually leave a town we
once called home for a new area that will bring us satisfaction? Or, do we too often move to
a new area without knowing exactly what we’re getting into, forcing us to turn tail and run at
the first sign of discomfort?
To minimize the chances of this happening, we should always do proper research when
planning our next move in life. Consider the following factors when picking a new place to
live so you don’t end up wasting your valuable time and money making a move you’ll end
up regretting. Safety is a top concern when moving to a new area. If you don’t feel safe in
your own home, you’re not going to be able to enjoy living there.

1.2 Problem
The crime statistics dataset of London found on Kaggle has crimes in each Boroughs of
London from 2008 to 2016. The year 2016 being the latest we will be considering the data
of that year which is actually old information as of now. The crime rates in each borough
may have changed over time.
This project aims to select the safest borough in London based on the total crimes, explore
the neighborhoods of that borough to find the 10 most common venues in each
neighborhood and finally cluster the neighborhoods using k-mean clustering.
1.3 Interest
Expats who are considering to relocate to London will be interested to identify the safest
borough in London and explore its neighborhoods and common venues around each
neighborhood.

2.DATA
2.1 Data Acquisition
The data acquired for this project is a combination of data from three sources. The first data
source of the project uses a London crime data that shows the crime per borough in
London. The dataset contains the following columns:
● lsoa_code: code for Lower Super Output Area in Greater London.
● borough: Common name for London borough.
● major_category: High level categorization of crime
● minor_category: Low level categorization of crime within major category.
● value: monthly reported count of categorical crime in given borough

The second source of data is scraped from a wikipedia page that contains the list of London
boroughs. This page contains additional information about the boroughs, the following are
the columns:
● Borough: The names of the 33 London boroughs.
● Inner: Categorizing the borough as an Inner London borough or an Outer London
Borough.
● Status: Categorizing the borough as Royal, City or other borough.
● Local authority: The local authority assigned to the borough.
● Political control: The political party that control the borough.
● Headquarters: Headquarters of the Boroughs.
● Area (sq mi): Area of the borough in square miles.
● Population (2013 est)[1]: The population in the borough recorded during the year
2013.
● Co-ordinates: The latitude and longitude of the boroughs.
● Nr. in map: The number assigned to each borough to represent visually on a map.

3. METHODOLOGY
3.1 Exploratory Data Analysis
3.1.1 Statistical summary of crimes
The describe function in python is used to get statistics of the London crime data, this
returns the mean, standard deviation, minimum, maximum, 1st quartile (25%), 2nd quartile
(50%), and the 3rd quartile (75%) for each of the major categories of crime.

3.2 MODELLING
Using the final dataset containing the neighborhoods in Kingston upon Thames along with
the latitude and longitude, we can find all the venues within a 500 meter radius of each
neighborhood by connecting to the Foursquare API. This returns a json file containing all
the venues in each neighborhood which is converted to a pandas dataframe. This data
frame contains all the venues along with their coordinates and category

4. RESULTS
After running the K-means clustering we can access each cluster created to see which
neighborhoods were assigned to each of the five clusters. Looking into the neighborhoods
in the first cluster
The cluster one is the biggest cluster with 9 of the 15 neighborhoods in the borough
Kingston upon Thames. Upon closely examining these neighborhoods we can see that the
most common venues in these neighborhoods are Restaurants, Pubs, Cafe, Supermarkets,
and stores.
Looking into the neighborhoods in the second, third and fifth clusters, we can see these
clusters have only one neighborhood in each.

5. DISCUSSION
The aim of this project is to help people who want to relocate to the safest borough in
London, expats can chose the neighborhoods to which they want to relocate based on the
most common venues in it. For example if a person is looking for a neighborhood with good
connectivity and public transportation we can see that Clusters 3 and 4 have Train stations
and Bus stops as the most common venues. If a person is looking for a neighborhood with
stores and restaurants in a close proximity then the neighborhoods in the first cluster is
suitable. For a family I feel that the neighborhoods in Cluster 4 are more suitable dues to
the common venues in that cluster, these neighborhoods have common venues such as
Parks, Gym/Fitness centers, Bus Stops, Restaurants, Electronics Stores and Soccer fields
which is ideal for a family. The choices of neighborhoods may vary from person to person.

6.CONCLUSION
This project helps a person get a better understanding of the neighborhoods with respect to
the most common venues in that neighborhood. It is always helpful to make use of
technology to stay one step ahead i.e. finding out more about places before moving into a
neighborhood. We have just taken safety as a primary concern to shortlist the safest
borough of London. The future of this project includes taking other factors such as cost of
living in the areas into consideration to shortlist the borough, such as filtering areas based
on a predefined budget.
